# canros
UAVCAN to ROS interface.

canros only supports Python 2 at this stage.

## Installation
canros requires [ROS Kinetic](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation) and [pyuavcan](http://uavcan.org/Implementations/Pyuavcan/) to be installed.

Clone into the `src` folder in your catkin workspace and run `catkin build`.

    cd ~/catkin_ws/src
    git clone https://github.com/MonashUAS/canros.git
    cd ..
    catkin build


## Running the canros server
Run the canros server though ROS.

    roslaunch canros server.launch uavcan_id:=<uavcan_id> can_interface:=<can_interface>

- uavcan_id: UAVCAN node id for canros server. Must be between 1 and 127 inclusive (default `127`).
- can_interface: Address of CAN interface (default `/dev/ttyACM0`).
- config_yaml: Path to a config yaml file (default [`default.yaml`](launch/default.yaml)).

### YAML config

- blacklist: A list of UAVCAN types to not subscribe to. For example `["uavcan.equipment.actuator.ArrayCommand", "uavcan.equipment.esc.RawCommand"]`.


## API
The easiest way to use canros is to use the Python API which can be imported using `import canros` from within the catkin workspace.
For details on the API see the inline documentation in [__init__.py](src/canros/__init__.py).


### Examples
Send a message into the UAVCAN network once every second.

	#!/usr/bin/python

	from __future__ import print_function
	import canros
	import rospy

	rospy.init_node("canros_message_test")

	# Retrieve canros object for the message 'uavcan.protocol.enumeration.Indication'
	indication = canros.Message("uavcan.protocol.enumeration.Indication")

	# Create a ROS Publisher using the canros object
	pub = indication.Publisher(queue_size=10)

	# Use canros object to obtain the ROS type
	msg = indication.Type()

	# Obtain the ROS type for the message 'uavcan.protocol.param.NumericValue'
	# which is part of 'uavcan.protocol.enumeration.Indication'
	msg.value = canros.Message("uavcan.protocol.param.NumericValue").Type()

	# 'uavcan.protocol.param.NumericValue' is a union type so the 'canros_union_tag' field needs to be set
	msg.value.canros_union_tag = msg.value.CANROS_UNION_TAG_REAL_VALUE
	msg.value.real_value = 98.7654321

	msg.parameter_name = canros.to_uint8("canros test")

	# Spin while publishing the message every second.
	while True:
		rospy.sleep(1)
		if rospy.is_shutdown():
			raise Exception("ROS shutdown")
		pub.publish(msg)

Provide a service for consumption by the UAVCAN network.

	#!/usr/bin/python

	from __future__ import print_function
	import canros
	import rospy

	rospy.init_node("canros_service_test")

	# Retrieve canros object for the service 'uavcan.protocol.param.GetSet'
	get_set = canros.Service("uavcan.protocol.param.GetSet")

	def handler(req):
		print(req)

		# Use canros object to obtain the ROS response type
		resp = get_set.Response_Type()

		# The 'max_value' and 'min_value' fields are union types so the 'canros_union_tag'
		# field needs to be set
		resp.max_value.canros_union_tag = resp.max_value.CANROS_UNION_TAG_EMPTY
		resp.min_value.canros_union_tag = resp.min_value.CANROS_UNION_TAG_REAL_VALUE

		resp.min_value.real_value = 1.23456789
			resp.value = req.value
		resp.default_value = req.value
		resp.name = canros.to_uint8("service test: " + req.name)

		return resp

	# Use canros object to create a new ROS service
	get_set.Service(handler)

	# Spin
	while True:
		rospy.sleep(1)
		if rospy.is_shutdown():
			raise Exception("ROS shutdown")


## Custom UAVCAN DSDL definitions
canros server uses pyuavcan so custom UAVCAN DSDL definitions can be imported using the instructions on [this page](http://uavcan.org/Implementations/Pyuavcan/Tutorials/2._Basic_usage/#using-vendor-specific-dsdl-definitions). 


## Conversion between ROS and UAVCAN
Though the specifications for ROS and UAVCAN types are similar, there are a few differences.

### Bit lengths
UAVCAN allows for an arbitrary bit length for signed and unsigned integers up to 64 bits, as well as a 16 bit float.
Such types are unavailable in ROS therefore, when creating the ROS message definitions, canros rounds up to the next bit length available.
If data contained within a field excededs its maximum or minimum value as defined in the UAVCAN type specification, the field will be subject to truncation by pyuavcan.

### Array lengths
All arrays generated by canros have no size restrictions.
If an array excededs its maximum size as defined in the UAVCAN type specification, the array will be subject to truncation by pyuavcan.

### Union types
UAVCAN allows a message to be declared a union type which is unavailable in ROS.
For compatability, canros introduces a new `canros_union_tag` field into ROS definitions.
The `canros_union_tag` field is an unsigned integer which should be set to the index of the field to be considered.
Constants named `CANROS_UNION_<field>` (where `<field>` is the name of the field in uppercase) are also added to the ROS definition.
This does not save bandwidth in the ROS network as all fields are still sent.

### Type names
UAVCAN types are placed in a folder hierarchy and then addressed relativly or by using the full name which is period (`.`) delimited (e.g. `uavcan.protocol.param.NumericValue`).
Type hierarchy nor perilod delimiting in type names is possible in ROS therefore canros names all ROS type definitions as the UAVCAN full name with double underscores (`__`) replacing the periods (e.g. `uavcan__protocol__param__NumericValue`).

### Topics
All communications with canros are done under the `/canros` topic.
Messages are sent and received under the `/msg` sub topic.
Service requests that go into the UAVCAN network are sent through the `/srv/req` sub topic.
Service responses that go into the UAVCAN network are sent through the `/srv/resp` sub topic.
Finally the UAVCAN name is used for hierarchy.

For example the message `uavcan.protocol.enumeration.Indication` is sent and received on the topic `/canros/msg/uavcan/protocol/enumeration/Indication`.

### UAVCAN node IDs
ROS does not provide a method for attaching meta data such as source and destination addresses to a message. Therefore, for messages that require the source or destination UAVCAN node id, the `canros_uavcan_id` field is added to the message definition.
The `canros_uavcan_id` is added to all request definitions in services as well as a hard coded selection of messages.
Currently `uavcan.protocol.NodeStatus` is the only such hard coded message.

If a message is going from the UAVCAN network to the ROS network, then the `canros_uavcan_id` field will be populated with the UAVCAN node id of the node that sent the message.
If a message is going from the ROS network to the UAVCAN network, then the `canros_uavcan_id` field should be set to the UAVCAN node that should receive the message.
